Hello, and welcome back
to the course on Deep Learning.
Today we are talking about Deep Belief Networks.
So, what is a Deep Belief Network?
Well, a Deep Belief Network comes to be if you
stack on top of each other several
Restricted Boltzmann Machines or RBMs.
So, here you can see the first RBM,
here you can see the second RBM, the third RBM.
So, basically the outputs, or the hidden layer
of the first RBM, is the input of the second RBM
and then the hidden layer of the second RBM
is the input of the third RBM.
And, in a Deep Belief Network,
so you've stacked up these RBMs,
and then also another thing that happens is
you make sure that you're directionality is in place
for all of the layers except for the top two.
So, basically you make sure that these layers,
layers one, two and three, and the connections between them,
they are directed and they are directed downwards.
Whereas there is no direction in the top layers.
It's quite hard to explain what's going on here
because this is a very complex,
a very advanced type of network.
We'll just say that this is the network,
these Deep Belief Networks, is what revived
the interest in Deep Learning in the 2000's.
This coming up when Hinton and his team, as for as I know,
it was Hinton and his team who came up
with these Deep Belief Networks.
When that happened that's when the whole interest
in Deep Learning got revived.
And, the other thing that I'll mention here,
is that there's two types of training.
So, there will be quite a bit of additional reading
which you can do to really familiarize yourself with
Deep Belief Networks, and how they are used,
and what kind of mathematics are behind them.
But, in terms of training, there's two types of algorithms
that you'll come across.
There's Greedy layer-wise training algorithm
which basically trains these RBMs.
So, the directionality you set it up
after you've trained up the weights.
So, first you train the Restricted Bolzmann Machines, RBMs,
with the undirected connections.
And the Greedy layer-wise training is, you train this layer,
you train this layer, you train this layer.
So, you train them layer by layer as RBMs
and then there's also the wake-sleep algorithm.
It's another thing you should look out for
in the papers you're going to be reading.
The wake-sleep algorithm is basically
you train all the way up, then you train all the way down.
So, your connections there awake.
All the ones that going up are awake.
The ones that are going down are asleep.
And then the other way around.
That's where the wake-sleep term comes from.
So, basically that's how it works.
You stack up RBMs, you train them up,
then you, once you've got the weights,
you make sure that these connections only work downwards.
And that's pretty much it and, unfortunately,
we won't go into too much detail on this
because this is a very, very advanced topic.
I just wanted to make sure that you are familiar
with what a Deep Belief Network looks like
and what it entails.
If you ever do need to come across,
if you ever do need to use it in practice,
you inevitably will have to design your own
and therefore you will have to do some research
and read some papers
and understand the design that goes onto it.
And that is just going beyond the scope
of these initial tutorials.
But, nevertheless, we are going to give you
some additional things you can look into.
So, the Greedy layer-wise training of Deep Belief Networks
you can find it in this article over here,
by Yoshua Bengio and others.
While actually this article is very popular,
it's been cited over a thousand times,
but the article that we mentioned
in the previous tutorial by Hinton,
where we were talking about how the training
of an RBM happens. Well that article actually also has,
that's where the Greedy layer-wise is described
before it was used in Bengio's article.
So, then that article by Hinton was cited like
over 5,000 times.
So, make sure to check out that article first,
if you haven't yet.
Or that paper first.
And then move onto this paper by Bengio
and here they explore the whole concept
of Greedy layer-wise training further.
And, they understand how it enhances the training.
How it makes things faster
and like they just basically test it.
I think it's an emperical test
on the Greedy layer-wise training.
And so, if you do want to get into DBNs more
then those two articles, those two papers,
will help you get, actually do exactly that.
And, also in addition, you will learn about this
Greedy layer-wise training and how it's happening.
Another one is the wake-sleep algorithm by Hinton.
So it's another popular article, another popular paper.
This one was written in, published in 1995.
This one is talking about the wake-sleep algorithm.
So, again, if you feel that you need to get into DBNs,
and it's something that you need for your work
or something you need for a project
or you want to explore further,
these are the 3 papers that are a good start
to get you into the world of Deep Belief Networks.
There we go.
I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and I look forward
to seeing you next time.
Until then enjoy Deep Learning.